Module 9 - Introduction to React.js

 Q 1: What is React.js? How is it different from other JavaScript frameworks and
	libraries?
	Ans.React is a library focused mainly on building user interfaces with a component-based architecture and a virtual DOM for performance optimization.
	Other frameworks like Angular or Vue.js provide more out-of-the-box features, such as two-way data binding and more structure for larger applications.
	React is a more flexible solution and is often part of a larger stack.
 Q 2: Explain the core principles of React such as the virtual DOM and componentbased architecture.
	Ans.Virtual DOM: Minimizes direct manipulation of the real DOM, improving performance and responsiveness.
	Component-Based Architecture: Leads to a modular, maintainable, and reusable codebase, making complex applications easier to develop and manage.
Q 3: What are the advantages of using React.js in web development?
	Ans. React.js offers numerous advantages for web development:
	Performance: Through Virtual DOM and optimized rendering.
	Reusability and Modularity: Component-based structure enables clean, maintainable code.
	Flexibility: React works well with a wide variety of tools, libraries, and back-end technologies.
	Strong Ecosystem and Community: A vast library ecosystem and active developer community make it easier to build complex applications.
	Cross-Platform Development: Use the same React concepts for building web, mobile (React Native), and even desktop (with Electron) applications.
JSX

Q 1: What is JSX in React.js? Why is it used?
	Ans.JSX in React.js is a syntax extension that allows you to write HTML-like code within JavaScript. It is used because It makes UI code more readable and easier to write
	by combining HTML structure and JavaScript logic in one place.By using JSX, React developers can build dynamic, maintainable, and highly interactive user interfaces in
	a simpler and more efficient way.
 Q 2: How is JSX different from regular JavaScript? Can you write JavaScript insideJSX?
	Ans.JSX is an extension of JavaScript, but it has some key differences from regular JavaScript syntax.
	Yes, we can write JavaScript inside JSX, but it must be wrapped inside curly braces {}. This is one of the core features of JSX that allows you to dynamically render content.
Q 3: Discuss the importance of using curly braces {} in JSX expressions.
	Ans.The primary use of curly braces {} in JSX is to embed JavaScript expressions inside the JSX structure. Without the curly braces,
	JSX treats the content as plain text, but inside the curly braces, JSX interprets the content as a JavaScript expression.

Component

   Q 1: What are components in React? Explain the difference between functional
         components and class components.
	Ans.In React, components are the building blocks of the user interface (UI). They allow you to split the UI into independent, reusable pieces of code,
	making it easier to build and maintain complex UIs. A component can represent anything from a button, form, or input field to a complex layout.
	Functional Components – Defined as functions.
	Class Components – Defined as ES6 classes.
	Functional Components
	Functional components are simply JavaScript functions that return JSX. They can accept props as arguments and use them to render the UI. In earlier versions of React,
	functional components can now manage state and use side-effects, making them fully capable of handling the same functionality as class components.
	Class Components
	Class components are ES6 classes that extend from React.Component. They are more powerful than functional components .
	because they can manage local state and have lifecycle methods to interact with the component during its various stages .

Q 2: How do you pass data to a component using props?
	Ans.Props are used to pass data from a parent component to a child component in React.Props are immutable, meaning they cannot be modified by
	the child component that receives them.Destructuring props in the child component is a cleaner way to access specific prop values.we can pass multiple props to a component.
	Default props can be defined in the child component to provide fallback values.Prop types can be used for validation to ensure that the right data type is passed to
	the component.

Q 3: What is the role of render() in class components?
	Ans.The render() method in class components is a required method that returns the JSX that defines what the component will display.
	It is called every time the component’s state or props change.The render() method should be a pure function that only returns JSX and should not have side effects.
	React takes care of efficiently updating the actual DOM when the JSX returned by render() changes, following React's declarative rendering model.

Props and State

Q 1: What are props in React.js? How are props different from state?
	Ans.Props: Used to pass data from parent to child components. Props are immutable and are read-only within the child component.
	State: Used to store data that can change over time within a component. State is mutable and can be modified within the component to trigger re-renders.
	State is local to the component that holds it.

Q 2: Explain the concept of state in React and how it is used to manage componentdata.
	Ans.State is a JavaScript object that holds data that can change over time and affects how a component is rendered.
	It is mutable and can be updated with methods like setState() (in class components) or setState from useState().
	React triggers a re-render whenever the state changes, ensuring that the component displays the latest data.
	State should not be modified directly. Always use state-updating functions to ensure proper updates and re-renders.
	State is local to each component and encapsulated within it, while props are used to pass data from parent to child components.

Q 3: Why is this.setState() used in class components, and how does it work?
	Ans.this.setState() is used in class components to update the component's state and trigger a re-render of the component.
	It works asynchronously, which means state updates may not immediately reflect after calling this.setState().
	The method accepts an object or a function to update the state and optionally a callback function to run after the state has been updated.

Handling Events in React

Q 1: How are events handled in React compared to vanilla JavaScript? Explain the
concept of synthetic events.
	Ans.React's event handling uses Synthetic Events, which are cross-browser normalized versions of the native DOM events.
	Synthetic Events provide a consistent API and abstract browser differences, ensuring that event handling works the same way across all browsers.
	React's camelCase event names and automatic binding make event handling easier compared to vanilla JavaScript,
	where you would typically use addEventListener() to manually attach events.
	React also uses event pooling for performance optimization, which means event objects are reused,
	so they should be accessed synchronously to avoid potential issues.

Q 2: What are some common event handlers in React.js? Provide examples of
onClick, onChange, and onSubmit.
	Ans.In React, events are handled through JSX attributes like onClick, onChange, and onSubmit.
	The event handlers are specified in camelCase and are functions that you define within your component.
	These handlers allow you to interact with the DOM and manage state in response to user actions such as clicks, form submissions, or input changes.

Q 3: Why do you need to bind event handlers in class components?
	Ans.In class components, event handlers need to be bound to the class instance because this inside the handler will otherwise not point to the correct context.
	Binding can be done in the constructor using this.methodName = this.methodName.bind(this);.
	Alternatively, you can use arrow functions to automatically bind this without needing to manually bind the methods in the constructor.

Conditional Rendering

Q 1: What is conditional rendering in React? How can you conditionally render
elements in a React component?
	Ans.Conditional rendering in React is a fundamental concept for creating dynamic UIs. Depending on the specific use case, you can choose
	the method that works best for your needs—whether it's the simple ternary operator for quick decisions or the if/else for more complex scenarios.

Q 2: Explain how if-else, ternary operators, and && (logical AND) are used in JSXfor
conditional rendering
	Ans.if-else: Used for complex conditions or multiple outcomes. Not directly used inside JSX but outside in the render function.
	Ternary Operator: Conditionally renders one of two elements. Syntax: condition ? true : false;
	&& (Logical AND): Renders an element only if the condition is true. Syntax: condition && elementToRender.

Lists and Keys

Q 1: How do you render a list of items in React? Why is it important to use keyswhen
rendering lists?
	Ans.Rendering a list in React is done by mapping over an array and returning JSX elements for each item.
	Keys help React identify which items in the list have changed, allowing it to efficiently update the UI.
	Without keys, React would have to re-render the entire list every time it changes, leading to poor performance and possible UI bugs.
	Always use unique, stable keys when rendering lists, preferably using unique identifiers from your data (like id), not just the index.

Q 2: What are keys in React, and what happens if you do not provide a unique key?
	Ans.Keys are essential for efficient rendering in React, especially when rendering lists.
	Keys should be unique and stable .Avoid using the array index as a key when the list is dynamic, because it can cause issues with reordering and modifying the list.
	Without keys, React will not be able to optimize rendering, leading to performance issues and potential UI inconsistencies.

From in react

Q 1: How do you handle forms in React? Explain the concept of controlled
components.
	Ans.Controlled components in React make form handling predictable by ensuring that form values are stored and updated through React state.
	value and onChange are key to implementing controlled components.
	Advantages include easier state management, validation, and more predictable behavior, making controlled components the preferred approach for most forms in React.

Q 2: What is the difference between controlled and uncontrolled components in React?
	Ans.Controlled components are typically preferred in React because they provide better control over the form's behavior, validation, and interaction
	with other parts of the app.
	Uncontrolled components can be useful for simple, non-interactive forms where React doesn't need to manage the form's state or for performance
	optimizations in specific cases.

Hooks

Q 1: What are React hooks? How do useState() and useEffect() hooks work infunctional components?
	Ans.React Hooks are functions that allow you to use state and other React features in functional components, which previously were only available in class components.
 	Hooks make it easier to write and manage components by allowing you to use features like state, lifecycle methods, and context without needing to create a class.
	Usestate work: useState() returns an array with two values: the current state and a function to update the state. When you call setState(), it triggers a re-render
	of the component with the new state value.
	useEffect() work: allows you to perform side effects in your functional components, such as data fetching, subscriptions, or manually changing the DOM.

Q 2: What problems did hooks solve in React development? Why are hooks considered an important addition to React?
	Ans.Hooks are a game-changer in React development. They simplify state management, side effects, and component logic, allowing developers to write more
	maintainable, reusable, and efficient code. By introducing functional components as a viable alternative to class components, hooks have made
	React easier to use and more powerful, fundamentally changing how React applications are structured.

Q 3: What is useReducer ? How we use in react app?
	Ans.useReducer is useful when you need more control over how the state updates, especially for complex state transitions.
	It provides a way to centralize state management in a single reducer function, improving maintainability and predictability in larger applications.
	While useState is great for simple state management, useReducer shines when your state logic involves multiple related values or complex updates based on previous state.

Q 4: What is the purpose of useCallback & useMemo Hooks?
	Ans.useCallback and useMemo are React Hooks used for performance optimization by memoizing functions and values, respectively.

Q 5:  What’s the Difference between the useCallback & useMemo Hooks?
	Ans.Use useCallback if you're passing a function to a child and want to avoid unnecessary re-renders.
	        Use useMemo if you're storing a calculated value that shouldn’t be recalculated on every render.

Q 6:  What is useRef ? How to work in react app?
	Ans.Access DOM elements directly (like document.getElementById).Persist values across renders without causing re-renders.


React – JSON-server and Firebase Real Time Databas


Q 1:  What do you mean by RESTful web services?
	Ans.RESTful Web Services are web APIs that follow the REST (Representational State Transfer) architectural style,
	        enabling communication between systems over HTTP using standard methods.
Q 2:  What is Json-Server? How we use in React ?
	Ans.JSON Server is a mock REST API that uses a JSON file as a database. It's perfect for prototyping, testing frontend apps like React,
	        or simulating real backend APIs without writing server-side code.
Q 3:   How do you fetch data from a Json-server API in React? Explain the role offetch() or axios() in making API requests.
	Ans.To fetch data from a JSON Server API in React, you use either the built-in fetch() function or a library like Axios (axios()).

Q 4 : What is Firebase? What features does Firebase offer?
	Ans.Firebase is a Backend-as-a-Service (BaaS) platform developed by
	        Google that provides tools and infrastructure to build web and mobile apps quickly — without writing custom backend code.

Q 5: Discuss the importance of handling errors and loading states when working with APIs in React
	Ans.When working with APIs in React, managing loading and error states is crucial for user experience and reliability.
	Without them, users are left in the dark when things go wrong or are still loading.


Context API


Q 1:  What is the Context API in React? How is it used to manage global state across multiple components?
	Ans.The Context API is a built-in React feature that allows you to share global data (state) across multiple components
	         without prop drilling (manually passing props down through many levels).Avoids passing props through intermediate components
	         Useful for global data like theme, authentication, language, user settings, etc.Cleaner and more scalable than lifting state up repeatedly.

Q 2:  Explain how createContext() and useContext() are used in React for sharing state.
	Ans.1. createContext()
	        It creates a Context object.
	        Used to define the type of data (state) you want to share.
	        Ex.
	               import { createContext } from 'react';
	               export const MyContext = createContext();
    	         2. useContext()
	             A React Hook that allows consuming the context (shared data) in any functional component.
	          Ex.
	                import { useContext } from 'react';
	                import { MyContext } from './MyContext';
	                const value = useContext(MyContext);
